tx2mon - monitor ThunderX2 temperature, frequency and power

tx2mon decodes and displays the operating region of the SoC management
controller(MC). The display shows the current temperature from sensors, the
frequencies and the power measurements that is logged by the MC to host
memory.

To use tx2mon, you will need to install the corresponding kernel module
'tx2mon_kmod'. The kernel module maps the operating region to sysfs files
that are decoded by 'tx2mon' userspace application.

Usage: tx2mon [-d delay] [-f file] [-h]
Options:
    -d delay       update delay in seconds - range [0.0001..9999]
    -f csv_file    run in non-interactive mode, save data in CSV format to
                   the file specified
    -h             display help text
    -T             do not report throttling information
    -x             display extra information (internal block freq)

You have to run the application as root.

Description of fields reported by the application:
 Freq (Min/Max)         : SoC frequency limits, these limits depend on the SKU.
 Temp Thresh (Soft/Max) : Limits on temperature beyond which the SoC will
                          throttle voltage and frequency down.
 For each core          : Frequency and temperature reading.
 SoC Center Temp        : This represents the highest temperature on the SoC.

Voltage and power reported:
        Core : Voltage and power consumed by all cores on the SoC.
        SRAM : Voltage and power consumed by internal SRAM on the SoC.
        Mem  : Voltage and power consumed by the LLC ring on the SoC, refer to
               ThunderX2 HRM for details.
        SOC  : Voltage and power consumed by misc SoC blocks.
Memnet Freq  : Frequency used by the ring connecting the SoC, refer to ThunderX2
               HRM for details.

There is additional power consumed by cross-socket interconnect, PCIe, DDR and
other IOs that is not currently reported by this tool.

Throttling information:

If the tool is run on a platform that new extended management controller
operating region, it will report the following fields as well.

Throttling Active Events: list of active conditions that is causing throttling.
Throttle Events  and Throttle Durations:
         Temp:          count of temperature events, and total duration in ms.
         Power:         count of power events, and total duration in ms.
         External:      count of external events, and total duration in ms.

Additional Notes:
tx2mon reports on the sensors monitored by the on-chip management controller.
Some of the on-chip components (like the various IO blocks) do not have sensors
and therefore the voltage and power measurements of these blocks are not
provided by tx2mon.

However, if your platform has a BMC there should be additional sensors for the
platform that are connected to the BMC. The sensor reading from the sensors
connected to the BMC are available using ipmitool(1). The command 'ipmitool sdr'
can be used to dump the BMC sensor information.
